Leviathan Story and Lore Development from Infirmary 

Dr Richter is injured upon first encounter. If you let him die you get access to his Medical Office which is a veritable horror show of mad science experiments. The room on the right is a containment room containing the organic and machine parts of Icarus - a artificial being created by bioengineering human genetic material. This area is primarily a medical area but is important to the plot. 

Mary is in a medbay after being locked away after Dr Richter fearing his science experiments would be exposed attacked her. Icarus then defended Mary and Dr Richter attempted to destroy it's CPU in the containment room. However he did not get far and Icarus impaled Dr Richter incapacitating him on a metal rod. The Doctor however still remains alive due to experiments he had done on himself along with a strange green goo like materials found within the Bermuda triangle. 

Souls to save

when going into vortex distortion field you either give your friend a morphine injection as happened 
or you die entering leviathan and are forced to watch as it mocks you

Icarus
Icarus is a model I235 AI. These are AI which are made by also harvesting human brain cells so that they can develop some sense of sentience - hence their unstable reputation. Dr Richter used this to advantage to gaslight Icarus into securing victims for his research fusing organic and machine life.

Icarus can be freed from its flesh prison and can follow you as a guiding light or you can leave its organic part to suffer eternally in its containment in the infirmary 

Icarus is also the name of a corporation who control over half of the Eastern Hemisphere and who Bradlee Faught for during the war. They are a highly totalitarian fascist society combining aspects of state surveillance with transhuman body modification. In opposition to this is the group known as The Free Radicals - who wanted a more symbiotic and careful approach to AI tech.  

This all came to a head in 2040 when the technocratic head of state was assassinated by a rival corp called Embryosis (The company and cult ran by Hugo) 
but this was blamed on a free radical. Free Radicals then fought a 5 year war which consumed over half of the Earth's population and leading to a complete collapse of society. 

Max Cohen
Max Cohen is a friend of yours who was killed during combat with the first Icarus Cyberwarrior during the great battle of 2049. The last year Bradlee served as a medical support officer before dischange. Max had to mercy kill Cohen after a 

Mary can be reunited with her Father when you get to the control deck. You are able to get the password from the last fragments of her father's broken memories. Doing this allows you a dialogue where the player talks to the Father can appeal to the last remaining aspect of his human mind and he grants you both access to an escape pod.

Letting Dr live on first encounter means that he gains full control of the Infirmary and you can never access any supplies here. It also closes off the Leviathan Vortex Disruption Field. The Dr attempts to bribe you by offering you a chance at immortality with Icarus Labs. Choosing this ends the game.



